# Pod

- is a group of `one or more containers`, with `shared storage and network resources`, and a specification for how to run the containers.
- can contain `init containers` that run during Pod startup.
- You can also inject ephemeral containers for debugging a running Pod.

Commands
---

- Create pod
  `kubectl run my-pod --image=nginx`
- Get pods
  `kubectl get pods`

Pod Templates
---

```yaml
# nginx pod
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx:1.14.2
    ports:
    - containerPort: 80
```

```yaml
# busybox pod which prints message the pause
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: busybox
spec:
  containers:
  - name: busybox
    image: busybox:1.28
    command: ['sh', '-c', 'echo "Hello, Kubernetes!" && sleep 3600']
  restartPolicy: OnFailure
```

# Multi-container Pods

- A Pod can encapsulate an application composed of multiple co-located containers that are tightly coupled and need to share resources.
- These co-located containers form a single cohesive unit of service—for example, one container serving data stored in a shared volume to the public, while a separate sidecar container refreshes or updates those files.
- The Pod wraps these containers, storage resources, and an ephemeral network identity together as a single unit.

## SideCar

## Init

## Others

## Container Probes
---

- is a diagnostic performed periodically by the kubelet on a container.
- To perform a diagnostic, the kubelet either executes code within the container, or makes a network request.

###  Check mechanisms

There are four different ways to check a container using a probe. Each probe must define exactly one of these four mechanisms:

#### exec

Executes a specified command inside the container. The diagnostic is considered successful if the command exits with a status code of 0.

#### grpc
Performs a remote procedure call using gRPC. The target should implement gRPC health checks. The diagnostic is considered successful if the status of the response is SERVING.

#### httpGet

Performs an HTTP GET request against the Pod's IP address on a specified port and path. The diagnostic is considered successful if the response has a status code greater than or equal to 200 and less than 400.

#### tcpSocket

Performs a TCP check against the Pod's IP address on a specified port. The diagnostic is considered successful if the port is open. If the remote system (the container) closes the connection immediately after it opens, this counts as healthy.

- is a diagnostic performed periodically by the kubelet on a container.
- To perform a diagnostic, the kubelet can invoke different actions:
  - ExecAction (performed with the help of the container runtime)
  - TCPSocketAction (checked directly by the kubelet)
  - HTTPGetAction (checked directly by the kubelet)


