Amazon EventBridge
---

- can `react to changes` in AWS services, AWS applications, or SaaS applications.
- The selected source event can be linked in real time to an AWS target, such as AWS Lambda, Simple Notification Service, and Kinesis Data Firehose.
- automatically `ingests, filters, and sends each event to the selected target`.
- Each event includes the source of the event, the timestamp, and the AWS region.
- Events can be `filtered by creating rules` that match an incoming event to an event bus, routing the event to a specific target for processing.
- EventBridge rules can customize events before they are delivered to a target by adding a custom response.
- is recommended for ingesting data from `SaaS applications` due to Amazon EventBridge and the built-in SaaS integration with many popular SaaS applications.

# Features of EventBridge

## Global endpoints

- Destinations for an Amazon EventBridge events can be replicated across primary and secondary regions for multi-region deployments.

## API destinations

- Events can also be `sent to on-premises SaaS applications` for controlling application throughput and authentication.

## Replay events

- `Reprocess past events` for analyzing application errors that have been fixed.

## SaaS integration

- AWS EventBridge responds to events generated by well-known SaaS applications, including `Shopify, Salesforce, SignalFx, and Zendesk`.

## Event filtering

- Rules can match incoming events and route them to a specific target or AWS service for processing.

## Targets

- Targets can be a `single or multiple AWS accounts`.

